Javascript - Day -1 : Introduction to Browser & web:
(1)To Read:-


(a)Statically typed languages:
  A language is statically typed if the type of a variable is known at compile time. For some languages this means that you as the programmer must specify what type each variable is; other languages (e.g.: Java, C, C++) offer some form of type inference, the capability of the type system to deduce the type of a variable (e.g.: OCaml, Haskell, Scala, Kotlin).

The main advantage here is that all kinds of checking can be done by the compiler, and therefore a lot of trivial bugs are caught at a very early stage.

Examples: C, C++, Java, Rust, Go, Scala

Dynamically typed languages:
A language is dynamically typed if the type is associated with run-time values, and not named variables/fields/etc. This means that you as a programmer can write a little quicker because you do not have to specify types every time (unless using a statically-typed language with type inference).

Examples: Perl, Ruby, Python, PHP, JavaScript, Erlang.

(b)Scripted languages:
Scripting languages are interpreted within another program. JavaScript is embedded within a browser and interpreted by that browser.

Examples of scripting languages

JavaScript
Perl
Python
Advantages of Scripting languages:

Simple – Scripting languages are easier to write than programming language.

Fewer Lines of Code (LOC).

Programmed languages:
Programming languages like Java are compiled and not interpreted by another application in the same way.

Examples programming languages

C
C++ and
Java

(3)Difference between HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2

HTTP/1.1
Developed by Timothy Berners-Lee in 1989 as a communication standard for the World Wide Web, HTTP is a top-level application protocol that exchanges information between a client computer and a local or remote web server. In this process, a client sends a text-based request to a server by calling a method like GET or POST. In response, the server sends a resource like an HTML page back to the client.

For example, let’s say you are visiting a website at the domain www.example.com. When you navigate to this URL, the web browser on your computer sends an HTTP request in the form of a text-based message, similar to the one shown here:

GET /index.html HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com

HTTP/2
It began as the SPDY protocol, developed primarily at Google with the intention of reducing web page load latency by using techniques such as compression, multiplexing, and prioritization. This protocol served as a template for HTTP/2 when the Hypertext Transfer Protocol working group httpbis of the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) put the standard together, culminating in the publication of HTTP/2 in May 2015. From the beginning, many browsers supported this standardization effort, including Chrome, Opera, Internet Explorer, and Safari. Due in part to this browser support,
there has been a significant adoption rate of the protocol since 2015, with especially high rates among new sites.